README

Instructions to run the application

The program should be opened as an sbt project.

When the program is opened on Intellij, go into File -> Project Structure and make sure

the Project SDK is 1.8 (Java 8) and the Project lanaguage level is 8.

NOTE: If a lab computer is being used, enable Python Internet Enabler.

1. Extract the FILE_NAME zip file into wherever you want to save the file 

2. Open the Intellij IDEA application

3. Click on File -> Open, navigate to the directory you extracted the file and open it

4. When the program is opened on Intellij, go into File -> Project Structure and make sure the Project SDK is 1.8 (Java 8) and the Project language level is 8.

5. Open the project directory, then open src, then open main, then open java, then open controllers

6. Right click on ApplicationManager and click on Run 'ApplicationManager.main()' to start the application. Instructions on how to use the application will be shown on the command line.


Project structure:
The application uses the MVC architecture pattern with repository classes for accessing the database.
The model classes contains business logic for the respective element they represent.
The view classes are used to provide feedback and receive input from a user through a scanner.
The controller classes decide what should be done with the user input, linking the model and view classes together.
The repository classes provide a link to the SQLite database and is accessed through the model classes.

The application files can be found under src/main/java.
The files related to running tests can be found under src/test/java.
The resources used by the tests (feature files, input files and expected output files) can be found under src/test/resources.
The SQLite script is located in the root directory.
The main database (discourse.sqlite) and test database (testDatabase.sqlite) are located in the root directory.

Testing:
There are a total of 152 unit tests and

TBD (Show how to run all tests, show the total test coverage and explain the missing line coverage comes from sql exceptions)
TBD: Explain how the tests work eg file input stuff. Explain test and production database
TBD: Javadoc top of test classes
TBD: Explain that you need to run all tests and then run cucumber tests
TBD: add fail() to sql exceptions in test
TBD: change assertTrue/assertFalses to assertEquals unless it's a boolean
TBD: Convert eng git into pdf
TBD: Update hours spent for task estimation




3. If an existing project is opened, click on File -> Close project to display the welcome screen of Intellij.

4. Install the Scala plugin by clicking on Configure -> Plugins, typing Scala in the search bar and selecting it, installing it then restarting Intellij.

5. Click on import project and navigate to the directory from the extracted zip file and select it. Select import project from external model and click on sbt then press next. 

6. Check library sourcecs and uncheck sbt sources and uncheck "Use sbt shell for build and import." Select 1.8 (java 8) as your Project JDK (if you don't have java 8, download it here first through this link: https://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/jdk8-downloads-2133151.html). Leave Project format as .idea (directory based). Click on Finish.

